---

title: Committees
layout: col-document
document: Rules of Procedure
tags: Rules of Procedure
notice: 2020-09-16

---

{% capture date-to-pass %}{{ page.notice }}{% endcapture %}
{% include policy-feedback.html start-date=date-to-pass %}

## **OWASP Global Committees 2.0 Operational Model**

Passed by a vote of the OWASP Board of Directors on December 19, 2018.

### Summary

If an OWASP member wants to create a new OWASP committee the process for
that is as follows: 

1.    The member must circulate the proposed committee, firstly through
the OWASP mailing list. Optionally the member can use other mediums such
as Slack so that more community members can lend support to the
proposal. This proposal must state the rationale and the desired scope
for the creation of the new committee. 

2.     The proposal must get majority support from those who responded
to any communications about it and no major arguments against it. 

3.     If the previous requirement is met the OWASP Board of Directors
will determine whether the committee and its scope is in line with
OWASP’s goals and if any conflicts exist with other committees.

4.    If no conflict exists, the proposal will be discussed at the next
Board of Directors meeting. This will involve community discussion and a
vote on its formation.

![ProcessFlowCommittee2.0.png](/www-policy/assets/images/ProcessFlowCommittee2.0.png
"ProcessFlowCommittee2.0.png") 

5.     If a majority vote is established,
the Board of Directors will put out a public call for any OWASP members
interesting in committee membership, with a 4 week time period. 

6.    If the committee gets three applications to join the new committee
and creates a board to head up the new committee, then its proposal will
be deemed successful and the committee is created. The required roles
for a committee board are: 

  - Chair:  
  - Vice-Chair; and  
  - Secretary.   

Other roles that a committee board can be made up of, but are not
limited to, PR/Marketing, Web, Membership, Finance &
Meetings/Conferences 




## **I. Introduction** 
The OWASP Global Committees empower members of the community to help shape OWASP 
and make the best decisions for the Foundation. The goal of the Global Committees 
2.0 plan is to streamline the process for any member of the OWASP community who 
has an idea to improve the Foundation, to have a vehicle to act upon the idea and
successfully implement it.

## **II. High-Level Proposal**

OWASP’s committees participate in key aspects of our Foundation. This
may include Chapters, Projects, Conferences, Governance, and other
topics to be determined later. The key difference between the proposed
committees and those of OWASP past will be in the empowerment to take
action. OWASP believes that Committees should be empowered to vote on
change , at any time, that is within the stated scope of the committee.
If a committee wishes to change their scope, the committee should add
the proposed change to the next BoD meeting for discussion. Once the BoD
approves this change, the committee should bring the proposed change to
the OWASP Community for feedback.

## **III. Committee Creation**

At any point in time, a community member may propose a new committee via
the OWASP mailing lists including other mediums such as slack to ensure
greater community coverage,stating their rationale and the desired scope
for creating a new committee. After this discussion, with majority
support from those who responded on these communications and no major
arguments against, the OWASP Board of Directors (BoD) will determine
whether there is a conflict of interest with any existing committees and
whether the formation of that committee and its desired scope is in line
with OWASP’s goals.

If no conflict is determined to exist, the Board, at the next BoD
meeting will invite community discussion and vote on its formation.
 Once a majority vote is established, the BoD will initiate a public
call for OWASP members interested in committee membership, via the OWASP
Community mailing list, with a four-week time window. At this point, the
committee will be formed once it receives at least five OWASP member
applicants. These OWASP member applicants will be granted committee
membership on successful completion of the proposed committee.

A committee should have also a board with at least 5 members, each one
having a specific role. Common roles:

  - Organization: Secretary, PR/Marketing, Web, Membership, Finance &
    Meetings/Conferences, although specific roles can be created at the
    discretion of the committee

## **IV. Committee Scope**

The scope of an OWASP committee is established during the initial
proposal for the new committee. This scope should be submitted as a
draft to the BoD for discussion purposes prior to the committee
formation. The Board will assess if this scope is in line with OWASP’s
goals and may seek alterations where necessary.

### **Conflict**

In the event that a community or staff member believes that a committee
has taken actions outside of its scope, has abused the committee’s
scope, or would like to adjust the scope of a committee, then they may
state their rationale and desired response via the OWASP Leaders List.
After a community discussion, the community or staff member will request
that the OWASP Board of Directors establish the validity of the scope
disagreement or proposed scope amendment. A majority vote of the Board
is required to modify the scope of any OWASP committee.

If there is a conflict within the committee, the conflict should be
brought to the OWASP Compliance Committee who will rule on the conflict
based on available evidence and where necessary interviews with the
relevant personnel.

Committee members are required to report any infractions of OWASP
Foundation policies and procedures to the OWASP Board of Directors.

## **V. Committee Membership**

Any OWASP community member is welcome to participate in and provide
feedback to an OWASP committee. Committee membership (voting privileges
and leadership responsibilities), however, is limited to those who meet
the following criteria:

1.  Individual must be an OWASP member in good standing; or
2.  Individual must have the written endorsement of either a current
    committee member or an OWASP Board member; or
3.  Individual must demonstrate a history of at least three months
    participation in the committee for which they are applying for
    membership.

Any person who satisfies the above criteria may, by way of the public
committee communication medium outlined in section VIII below, request
to be granted membership to the committee. The committee will then
conduct a vote on the applicant, via the same medium, and if the
majority of members agree, they will be granted committee membership as
well.

Active committees are responsible for conducting a poll of members, at
least every six months, by the committee staff liaison, asking each if
they would like to continue to serve on the committee. Committee members
who respond “No” or who do not respond at all during a two-week time
window will be removed from membership by the committee.

A member of a committee leadership team may have their membership
removed for reasons of inactivity over a period of at least six months
or misconduct as determined by a unanimous vote of the remaining members
of the committee. If the committee feels that they do not have the
required capability to deal with this misconduct, they may submit the
case and all relevant documentation to the compliance committee for
review.

### **Lack of Participation**

If at any point in time, for any reason, committee membership is less
than five people, then the committee leadership must initiate a public
call for OWASP members interested in committee membership with a
four-week time window. All qualified applicants must be accepted to join
the committee as committee members. If there are not at least five
committee members at the end of the four-week time window, the committee
will lose its authoritative function, and will function only as in an
advisory capacity. All related decision-making will automatically be
re-assumed by the OWASP Board of Directors. Committee members are
required to report any infractions of OWASP Foundation policies and
procedures to the OWASP Board of Directors.

## **VI. OWASP Staff Participation**

The OWASP Foundation will provide a designated staff member to support
each active committee from an operational perspective. The staff member
may participate in the committee as a community member, but will not
serve as a voting member of the leadership team due to a potential
conflict of interest. Participating staff are required to report any
infractions of OWASP Foundation policies and procedures, by the
committee, to the OWASP Board of Directors. The committee leadership
team will be invited to provide feedback for the assessment of their
assigned staff member by being invited to provide an annual evaluation
of their committee related activities, capability and professionalism.

## **VII. OWASP Board Participation**

Members of the OWASP Board of Directors are allowed to become committee
members, but participate as normal committee members with no special
powers either expressed or implied. While Board member participation in
committees is encouraged, Board members must refrain from taking an
active leadership role for the committee.

## **VIII. Committee Communication**

All committees are required to hold their discussions in the open in
order to enable participation by any member of the community. All
committee discussions (written and verbal) must be archived in a
publicly accessible location so that the community may observe committee
actions at any point in time. Use of the OWASP Force Portal for
Committees is strongly encouraged as it provides logical conversation
grouping, an archive of conversations, document attachment capability,
participation metrics, and more, but other technologies may be used as
long as it is agreed upon by all committee members and all relevant
information is linked from the respective Committee wiki page.
Committees that wish to solicit assistance from outside participants for
committee activities are strongly encouraged to do so using the OWASP
Initiatives framework.

Committees are required to notify the OWASP Community, via OWASP mailing
lists including other mediums such as slack to ensure greater community
coverage, in writing of any official votes and provide a written summary
of actions taken on a minimum of a monthly basis or as necessary.
Committee decisions are considered official once a record has been
published to the community. The BoD is responsible for reviewing
committee actions and ensuring that the committee is acting within its
predefined scope and in accordance with the OWASP Foundation Bylaws as
well as all other applicable policies and procedures.

## **IX. Committee Organization**

All committees are responsible for being self-organized. This includes
determining their own leadership structure, coordinating committee
meeting schedules at least monthly, taking and publishing minutes of
committee meetings, assembling monthly action summaries, culling
inactive committee members, and ensuring compliance within the defined
scope and various OWASP policies and procedures.

## **X. Committee Removal**

If at any point in time an OWASP Leader believes that a committee is no
longer necessary or that the scope of one committee conflicts with the
scope of another, they may bring up this concern via the OWASP Leaders
List. After a community discussion, the OWASP BoD will hold a vote on
the committee removal. A ⅔ majority vote of the Board is required for
the removal of a committee.

## **XI. Empowerment**

As the goal of this proposal is to empower the community to make
decisions for the betterment of the Foundation, no Board vote is
necessary for any initiative,  provided that the following is true:

1.  The action is within the predetermined scope of the committee;
2.  The action does not directly affect other OWASP functions such as
    projects
3.  If money is required, the action follows the guidelines set forth in
    the Community Engagement Funding document;
4.  No contracts are being executed by the committee on behalf of the
    OWASP Foundation; and
5.  The action is in line with the OWASP Foundation Code of Ethics and
    is pursuant to OWASP’s mission.
6.  If any of these is not true, then the OWASP BoD should be consulted
    for approval prior to the committee’s execution.

## **XII. Accountability**

Because the committee is acting on behalf of the OWASP Foundation, but
as a separate entity from the OWASP BoD, the committee members are
expected to conduct their actions with regard to the OWASP Mission, the
OWASP Code of Ethics, and the BoD’s annual strategic goals. The
committee and it’s members will ultimately be held accountable for any
actions that are not in line with these key principles or that are
outside of the predetermined scope of the committee. Alleged violations
should be brought to the attention of the OWASP Leaders List along with
all substantiating evidence. After a community discussion, the Board may
veto the actions of the committee by a majority vote of the BoD.

## **XIII. Conclusion**

We believe that empowering our volunteers to take action is core to
OWASP’s mission. With the above committee structure, we believe that the
right pieces will be in place to provide the Foundation with effective
governance as well as checks and balances to ensure unbiased operation.
We hope that you will agree that executing on this is in the best
interests of the future of the OWASP Foundation.
